# Social and Economic Theory
### THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION: A RADICAL NEW SHARING ECONOMY

**The Social and Economic theorist By: 'Jeremy Rifkin'**

8,059,950 views  13 Feb 2018

The global economy is in crisis. The exponential exhaustion of natural resources, declining productivity, slow growth, rising unemployment, and steep inequality, forces us to rethink our economic models. Where do we go from here? In this feature-length documentary, social and economic theorist Jeremy Rifkin lays out a road map to usher in a new economic system. 

A Third Industrial Revolution is unfolding with the convergence of three pivotal technologies: an ultra-fast 5G communication internet, a renewable energy internet, and a driverless mobility internet, all connected to the Internet of Things embedded across society and the environment. 

This 21st century smart digital infrastructure is giving rise to a radical new sharing economy that is transforming the way we manage, power and move economic life. But with climate change now ravaging the planet, it needs to happen fast. Change of this magnitude requires political will and a profound ideological shift. 

To learn more visit: <a href="https://www.vice.com/en/topic/impact">Impact</a>

Intro
"The value of information does not survive the moment in which it was new.
It lives only at that moment; it has to surrender to it completely
and explain itself to it without losing any time." "A story is different. It does not expend itself.
It preserves and concentrates its strength and is capable of releasing it even after a long time."
— Walter Benjamin


The global economy is in crisis.
Economists warn that we face another 20 years of declining productivity, slow growth, steep unemployment and increasing inequality.

The economic downturn is fueling growing discontent toward governing institutions and spawning extreme political movements
around the world.

And now, after 200 years of industrial activity, scientists report that climate change is ravaging the planet, taking us into
the sixth mass extinction of life on Earth.
Where do we go from here?

Paragraph 1:
Jeremy Rifkin is an economic and social theorist and the author of over 20 books including "The Zero Marginal Cost Society," "The Third Industrial Revolution," and "The Empathic Civilization." He is an advisor to the European Union and The People's Republic of China, and a principal architect of their Third Industrial Revolution plans. Let me start on a very somber note. I hope it will end up being a liberating reflection. You'll have to judge.

Paragraph 2:
GDP is slowing all over the world everywhere. And the reason is productivity has been declining for twenty years all over the world. The result: Unemployment is very high everywhere. And nowhere is it more pronounced than among the Millennial Generation coming into the workforce. Our economists tell us that we can look forward to slow productivity and slow growth for the next 20 years.

Paragraph 3:
And let me do the math for you: At the end of two industrial revolutions in the 19th and 20th century, here's the equation: We have to admit that half the human race is far better off today than our ancestors were before we began this industrial experiment. Granted? Also we need to acknowledge that 40% of the human race are making $2 a day or less. And arguably they are worse off than their ancestors were before the Industrial experiment. And the final equation: The industrial era, while it's benefited half the human race in detriment to the other half of the human race, the well-off, the very wealthy have done quite well. Today, the 62 wealthiest human beings in the world—we could put them in this little section of the room. The 62 wealthiest human beings in the world today, their combined wealth equals the accumulated wealth of one half the human population living on Earth. Three and a half billion people. There's something really dysfunctional about the way the human family is organizing its economic relationships on this Earth.

Paragraph 4:
It's clear we're in a long-term structural economic crisis at the end of the 2nd Industrial Revolution. But now this industrial era has given rise to a much more profound crisis—an environmental crisis. We have spewed massive amounts of CO₂ and methane and nitrous oxide into the atmosphere of this planet to create this industrial way of life. And now we have so much CO₂, methane, and nitrous oxide in the atmosphere that is blocking the sun's heat from getting off the Earth. We are in real-time climate change. This is no longer a theory. This is no longer looming on the horizon. This is no longer imminent. Climate change is now at the house, in the door.

Paragraph 5:
What's terrifying about climate change—and unfortunately it's never explained, because if it were explained, our human family would be justifiably terrified and motivated and driven to begin to transform this planet. Climate change changes the water cycles of the Earth. That's what this is all about. It's never explained. We're the watery planet. Our satellite probes go to other planets and what's the first thing we look for? Water. No water? Not interested! Recently they discovered what they think is dirty water on Mars, and everybody is thrilled. Our ecosystems on Earth have developed over millions of years based on the water cycles, the cloud cycles that traverse them across the Earth.

Paragraph 6:
For every one degree that the temperature of the planet goes up because of industrial-induced CO₂ emissions—For every one degree that the temperature goes up on this planet, the atmosphere is actually sucking up 7% more precipitation from the ground. The heat is forcing the precipitation into the clouds, so we're getting more concentrated precipitation, more violent water events, but they're more infrequent, throwing the entire water cycle of the Earth off-kilter. More blockbuster winter snows. Eight feet in Boston last season? My gosh! More dramatic spring floods—that flood in the Carolinas, remember? They said this flood only will occur once every thousand years. It's the new normal. More prolonged summer droughts. My wife and I were in British Columbia and we're coming into Vancouver. The pilot says, "We have some smoke coming in." I turned to my wife and I said, "You mean smog?" No, he meant smoke. Wildfires from British Columbia to California. Summer droughts and wildfire. We have Category 3, 4, and 5 hurricanes now—so dramatic that they're destroying infrastructure and killing people all over the world. That hurricane that hit the Philippines—This was the most powerful hurricane ever recorded. This is the new normal.

Paragraph 7:
What I'm saying here is that climate change is dramatically changing the water cycles. They're on an exponential curve. This is absolutely frightening. It's terrifying. And if you are a young millennial about to start a family—if you're a parent here or a grandparent. I want you to listen to this. Our scientists now tell us that we are in the sixth extinction event of life on Earth. It doesn't even make the headlines. This is the most dramatic story a human family has ever faced. There have been five mass extinction events on Earth in 450 million years. And each time the chemistry of the planet shifts very quickly—there's what we call a turning point—and massive die-out. And after the massive die-out of life, it takes upwards of 10 million years to get new life back on Earth. Our scientists now tell us we are in the sixth extinction event. This is not a model—we're chronicling it in real time.

Paragraph 8:
And what they're saying is that over the next seven decades—and many of you will be around for a lot of that, and your children will—in the next seven decades, we could lose over half the species of life that now inhabits this little oasis in the universe. As my wife says, we just are not grasping the enormity of this moment. We might acknowledge climate change, but we're going on as business as usual, with a little greenwashing. 99.5% of all the species that ever been on this planet have come and gone. Those are not good odds. And what's interesting is, human beings—We're the actual youngest species, we're the babies. Anatomically modern humans have only been here about 200,000 years. There's no guarantee we're gonna make this. And the new studies that have just come out they're even more terrifying because they're seeing the freshwater melts in the Arctic, now in Greenland and now in Antarctica much quicker than we expected changing the ocean currents. And they're talking about storms that are beyond anything we can imagine, that we've ever seen in human history by the end of this century. Talking about the major coastal cities, where much of our urban population is, underwater. This is not a century from now. This is in the lifetime of many young people who are four and five now and will be my age when we're in full steam into this new era, this abyss.

So what do we do? We need a new economic vision for the world. It has to be compelling. We needed a game plan to deploy that vision and it needs to be quick. It needs to move as quickly in the developing countries as in the industrialised nations. If we have any chance of arresting the worst of this climate change we're gonna have to be off carbon in four decades everywhere. This is beyond anything we're talking about at global conferences.

How do we begin to tackle something of this magnitude? We need to step back and reflect on how the great economic paradigm shifts in history occur. If we know how they occur, we're gonna get a road map here in this room and around the world, and we're gonna get a compass that allows us to navigate a new journey to completely transform the way we handle life on Earth.

CHAPTER ONE: The Great Economic Revolutions in History
There have been at least seven major economic paradigm shifts in history, and they're very interesting anthropologically because they share a common denominator. And that is at a certain moment of time, three technologies emerge and converge to create what we call in engineering a general-purpose technology platform. That's a fancy way of saying "a new infrastructure." It fundamentally changes the way we manage power and move economic life.

What are those three technologies? First, new communication technologies to allow us to more efficiently manage our economic activity. Second, new sources of energy to allow us to more efficiently power our economic activity. And third, new modes of mobility —transportation logistics— to allow us to more efficiently move the economic activity. So when communication revolutions join with new energy regimes, and new modes of transportation it does change the way we manage power and move economic life. It changes temporal spatial orientation. It changes our habitats. It allows us to integrate in larger units. It actually even changes consciousness and governance.

Let me give you two examples: First Industrial Revolution, 19th century. Second Industrial Revolution, 20th century. The Brits took us into the first Industrial Revolution. And first there was a communication revolution. They invented steam-powered printing. No more manual print presses. Steam power printing was a big leap forward, because it allowed us to mass produce very cheap print quickly. Then, in the second half of the 19th century, the Brits lay out a telegraph system across the British Isles. Steam power printing and the telegraph: those communication technologies then converged with a completely new source of energy in Britain called coal. But how are they gonna take that coal and harvest it? They invented the steam engine. Then this is ingenious: They figured out that they should put the steam engine on rails, for locomotives, national transport and logistics. Urban life, the Industrial Revolution, steam power.

Second Industrial Revolution: the United States. Centralized electricity and especially the telephone. I know we think the Internet's a big deal, but a telephone was a really big deal. All of a sudden, people could communicate at vast distances at the speed of light. Later, radio and television. These communication technologies converge in the United States with a completely new energy source. Cheap Texas oil. Then, Henry Ford put everybody on the road with cars, buses, and trucks. Second Industrial Revolution changed the way we manage power and move economic life. That second Industrial Revolution took us through the 20th century. It took the whole world through the 20th century. And it peaked in July 2008. Hi! Welcome back to the show here: Oil! Oil! Oil! To $147 we went— Remember that month?

In that month, Brent crude oil had a record price of $147 dollars on world markets and, when it hit that record price, the whole global economy shut down. Silence. Completely gone. That was the economic earthquake. The collapse of the financial markets 60 days later was the aftershock. Mayhem, carnage, and bloodbath. Call it what you want, but what we saw on global stock markets today was ill-disguised panic. Good evening. This was the day after what may someday be called Black Monday on Wall Street because it was perhaps the worst financial collapse since the Great Depression. Our policy leaders are still dealing with the aftershock, not the Earthquake.

Why was it the Earthquake? Because the entire Industrial Revolution that we've gone through is all dependent on the carbon deposits of a previous period in history. You know, if we look back let's say that we make it through this next period of history. I always wonder what will future generations think of us, maybe in a hundred thousand years from now. They'll say, "Oh, yes, we remember them." "There was the Bronze Age, the Iron Age." "These were the fossil fuel people." "They dug up the burial grounds of the Carboniferous era and created a short-lived dramatic and very dangerous civilization." It's all about fossil fuels. Our fertilizers and pesticides are made out of fossil fuels. Our construction materials are made out of fossil fuels. Most of our pharmaceutical products are made out of fossil fuels. Our synthetic fiber, our power, our transport, our heating lights— all made out of, moved by fossil fuels. When the price of oil goes over around $95 a barrel, all the other prices go up. When we get into the zone of around $115 a barrel, prices become so high, the purchasing power slows. This is the sunset of a great industrial era. Now you remember in 2009 oil went down to 50 a barrel, because the economy had shut down. There was no activity. In 2010, we tried to regrow inventories, so oil prices started to go up all the other prices go up. In 2014 we hit a new peak of $114 or $115 a barrel. Purchasing power slowed down again. This is a convulsion of growth-shutdown, growth-shutdown. And the only reason oil went down in the last few years to $30 a barrel is now the fossil fuel industry is fighting among themselves. In the sunset. OPEC said, "We're gonna keep the oil spigot open." "We're gonna flood the world with oil." "And that's gonna take the price down the $30 a barrel and wipe out our new competitors, the more exotic fossil fuels: shale gas in the US, tar sands in Canada." Guess what? They wiped them out —only took a year and a half. Bankruptcies across the USA in the shale gas industry. And now tar sands in Canada.

The pipeline's not happening. And do you hear anybody talking about energy independent right now? It's over! And, as soon as the bankruptcies complete themselves, the oil prices are now starting to go back up. But now we have failed states where there's oil production. We have failed States. So this is a volatile, convulsive sunset over the next 40 to 50 years —an unstable world.

Where do we head from here? Let me share an anecdote. When Angela Merkel became Chancellor of Germany, she asked me to come to Berlin in the first couple of weeks of her new government to help her address the question of how to grow the German economy on her watch. Now, remember: In terms of per capita Germany's the most robust capitalist market economy in the world.

When I got to Berlin, the first question I asked the new chancellor— I said, "Madam Chancellor how are you gonna grow the German economy when your businesses are plugged in to a platform, an infrastructure of centralized telecommunication, fossil fuel nuclear power, internal combustion, road rail water, and air transport—and that infrastructure peaked in its productivity, in Germany, years ago?

CHAPTER TWO: The Science of Productivity. Let me talk about productivity. This is crucial. Productivity. Our economists are lamenting. They're asking, "Why's productivity been declining for 20 years?" "We have all these new killer products coming out of Silicon Valley." "Why is productivity declining?"

I'm gonna share with you a dirty little secret in economics that economists don't like to talk about. We used to believe that there are two factors that drive productivity in standard economic theory: Better machines and better performing workers. But when Robert Solow won the Nobel Prize for economic growth theory in the mid-1980s, he actually let the little secret out. He said, "We've got a problem here."

When we trace every single year of the Industrial Revolution these two factors —better machines, better workers— it only accounts for about 14% of the productivity. So Robert Solow asked the big question: "Where does the other 86% of productivity come from?" Don't know. Moses Abramowitz, the former head of the American Economic Association said, "This is a measure of our ignorance."

Now wouldn't you think economists would know where productivity comes from, because that's the basis of the discipline? Here's why they don't know. When classical economic theory was penned in the late seventeen hundreds, the Vogue was Newton's physics. Newton was the big guy in town. Everybody wanted to use Newton's metaphor so they could be more scientific because he had discovered the laws that run the universe—supposedly.

The economists also fell in line. For example, you know Newton's law: "For every action there's an equal and opposite reaction." Adam Smith borrowed that metaphor for his invisible hand of supply and demand. "For every action on the supply side there's an equal and opposite reaction on the demand side."

Newton's law: "A body in motion stays in motion unless disrupted." Baptiste Say borrowed that metaphor —the French economist. And he suggested that, "Well supply will stimulate demand, which will generate supply, which will stimulate demand—unless disrupted." All of our economic theory, if you go back and take a look at it— it's all based on Newton's metaphors in physics. There's only one problem with this: Newton's physics has absolutely nothing to do with economics. Nothing.

Economics is governed by the same laws that govern the universe, the solar system, the biosphere on Earth, and every single thing you and I do in our economic life while we're here on this planet. Here are the two laws that govern everything in the universe, including our economy. The first law of Energy says: "All the energy in the universe is constant." "Since the Big Bang, no new energy has been created." "No energy has been destroyed since the Big Bang." That's the conservation law.

The second law of energy says that's true that the energy isn't created or destroyed, but it always changes form, but only in one direction. From concentrated—the Big Bang— to dispersed through the galaxies. From hot to cooled off through the galaxies. From order to disorder. From available to unavailable. Entropy is a measure of the energy that's still there, but not available to do useful work.

There are three systems that we can talk about in thermodynamics: an open system that exchanges matter and energy with the outside world; a closed system, which exchanges energy with the outside world, but does an exchange matter; and an isolated system, which doesn't exchange matter or energy with the outside world.

The Earth in relation to the solar system and Sun is B. We get plenty of energy from the Sun, we don't have to worry about this for billions of years. But in terms of the fixed matter on this planet we don't have a lot of additional matter coming down here. We get a few meteorites, a little cosmic dust, but whatever we have in terms of fixed matter —which is a form of energy—has been here since we blew off the Sun and cooled off. All of you have smartphones on you right now and there are little granules of rare Earths in those phones. They've been here since the Earth has been here. That's a form of energy as a material form.

So here's what economics is all about: We extract low entropy, available energy in nature —a rare Earth, a metallic ore, a fossil fuel— we extract it and then, through our value chains, we store it, we ship it, we produce goods and services from it, we consume it, we recycle it back to nature. Those are value chains. At every step of conversion, —when we take nature's resources and move it through society— at every step of conversion we have to embed energy into that good or service to get it to the next stage of what it becomes. But we lose some energy in the process of that conversion. This is called "aggregate efficiency" in economics. Aggregate efficiency is the ratio of the potential work versus the actual useful work you actually embed in the good or service.

Let me give you an example. Nature has the same economic conditions that we have in our human economy. If a lion chases down an antelope in the wild, then kills it, about 10-20% of the total energy that's in that antelope gets embedded into the lion. The rest is heat lost in the conversion. That's the aggregate efficiency. What does this have to do with my conversation with the Chancellor of Germany? She's a physicist, you know, by background. So here's what I said to her. We started the 2nd Industrial Revolution in 1905 in the USA with 3% aggregate efficiency. At every conversion of nature's resources through the value chain, we lost about 97%—it didn't get into the product or service. By 1990, the US got up to about 14% aggregate efficiency. That was our ceiling —nothing's changed since then. And I reported to the Chancellor that Germany got up to about 18.5% aggregate efficiency. That was their ceiling. Nothing's changed. Anybody wanna guess which country led the world in aggregate efficiency? —China? —Japan? Japan! 20% aggregate efficiency, 1990s, reached its ceiling.

What I'm saying to the Chancellor is this: You can have market reforms, labor reforms, monetary reforms. You can create incentives for killer new products. You can try to create a million Steve Jobs. It won't make a damn bit of difference. If your businesses are still plugged in to a 2nd Industrial Revolution infrastructure you can't get above the ceiling of 20% aggregate efficiency anywhere in the world. Why is this important? A new generation of economists who happen to study physics have gone back and looked at the industrial record and they added a third factor to productivity: better machines, better workers, aggregate efficiency. The ratio—yes, it's so obvious! The ratio of potential to useful work. When they put in that third factor, it accounts for much of the rest of productivity. Henry Ford could have told you this. In fact every engineer could have told you this. Every architect could have told you this. Every biologist could have told you this. Every chemist could have told you this. They all have to start their training in school by learning these two laws of energy that govern the universe. I teach in the oldest Business School in the world. I taught the advanced management program at the Wharton School for 15 years. Not a single business school in the world today, right now, requires that you learn about the 1st and 2nd laws of thermodynamics that govern economic activity. How shameful is this?

So, in that first day with the Chancellor we discussed a 3rd Industrial Revolution: a new convergence of communication, energy and transportation to manage power and move Germany. At the end of the day, in a private session, the Chancellor said, "Mr. Rifkin, we will have this 3rd Industrial Revolution here in Germany. 

CHAPTER THREE: A New Smart Infrastructure The communication internet is now mature. Communication It's been 25 years since the World Wide Web. We have digitalized communication. Now this communication internet is converging with a nascent, digitalized, renewable-energy internet. And now both those Internets are converging with a fledgling, automated, GPS, and very soon driverless road, rail, water, and air transport internet to create three Internets: communication internet, renewable energy internet, automated transportation-logistic internet. One super internet to manage, power, and move economic life.

These three internets ride on top of a platform called the "Internet of Things." We're embedding sensors in all of our devices, as you know, so they can monitor real-time activity and then talk to other machines and talk to us. So we have sensors now in the agricultural fields and they're actually monitoring the growth of crops the soil salinity, the moisture in the crops, etc. They're sending that data. We have sensors now in the factories that are monitoring our economic data. We have sensors in smart homes monitoring how the energy is used in our buildings. We have sensors in smart vehicles, warehouses, smart roads. All of them collecting data. But where does that big data go? It goes to communication, energy, and transport Internets to manage, power, and move economic life.

As this new system comes in it's gonna be ubiquitous by 2030, connecting everything with everything with everyone. We are essentially creating an external prosthesis —a distributed nervous system— that's gonna allow everyone on this planet, at very low cost, to begin directly engaging each other on a global Internet of Things and bypassing a lot of the vertical integrated organization and middlemen that kept us away from each other. We can have direct engagement now. This is the revolution. This evens the playing field.

There's been a long discussion among the Millennials— You started this: Occupy movements. Saying, "What about the 1%? The 99%?" Now we have a new platform. The Internet of Things platform is of a different nature than the platforms in the 1st and 2nd Industrial Revolution. The new platform is really radical, because this 3rd Industrial Revolution platform is designed to be distributed, not centralized. It works best when it's collaborative, and open and transparent, rather than closed and proprietary. And the benefits come when more and more people join the network and each of us contributes our talents, which benefits the network and then benefits us. It's designed to be laterally scaled, not vertically integrated. And this is what moves us from the 1% of the 99% to a vast, vast expansion of social entrepreneurialism and global networks. That's the upside. On the other hand, how do we deal with network neutrality? How do we ensure that everyone has equal access to this new Internet of Things platform, this 3rd Industrial Revolution? How do we

Sure, here's the text separated into paragraphs:

Technology just enables, then the question is, How will that journey end? It's a big question mark right now. But let's assume, for the sake of this afternoon, that we're gonna be able to deal with all the complexities of the DarkNet —and it's a big challenge.

Here's what this Internet of Things platform provides. Let's say here at Brooklyn you're a SME —small and medium-sized enterprise, or cooperative, or nonprofit. You can go up on this nascent Internet of Things platform that's already emerging. It's not theoretical. And you can have a transparent picture of all the economic data flowing through the world —if it stays network neutral. The power here is enormous. We think Snowden was a big deal? Now all the economic data is gonna be open to everyone, not just a few government secrets. But in a network neutral world, you're gonna be able to go up on this platform and have a completely transparent picture of all the data.

You can go up on the platform and cut your big data on your value chain out from the noise. Then, you can mine your big data with analytics. Then you can create your own algorithms and apps. They'll allow you to dramatically increase your aggregate efficiency at every step of conversion on your value chain. And, as you do that, dramatically increase your productivity, dramatically reduce your ecological footprint, and dramatically plunge your marginal cost. Some of those marginal costs are gonna get so low —they head to zero marginal cost. And when they hit near zero marginal cost, it gives rise to a completely new economic system. CHAPTER FOUR: Zero Marginal Cost and the Rise of the Sharing Economy.

Marginal Cost

In economic theory, the optimum market is where you sell at marginal cost. Marginal cost is after fixed costs. Once you pay for whatever the technology is. The marginal cost is what it costs to produce a unit. Classical economic theory, we've always said that the most optimum market is where you sell at marginal cost. Here's the problem we never expected a technology revolution —digital revolution— that would be so powerful in its potential productivity that it could actually reduce the marginal cost for some goods and services to near zero. Meaning there's no longer a profit margin and you can produce goods and services for each other beyond the market in the sharing economy for nearly free.

This sharing economy didn't come out of the blue. Capitalism gave birth to the sharing economy. Let me be clear: As muddy as the sharing economy is, it's the first new economic system to enter onto the world stage since capitalism and socialism in the 19th century. It's a remarkable historical event. This is already happening. Zero marginal cost phenomena is not theoretical. It's been how many years since Napster —the file-sharing service? About 17 years? 17 years! Well, this little file-sharing service started a revolution. We have 3 billion people right now on the internet —and now the Internet of Things— who are actually producing and sharing virtual goods at near zero marginal cost beyond the market, disrupting entire industries.

We have young people that are producing their own music. And what does it cost to have a little technology, a little machine that allows you studio-quality music when you wanna record in your home? And then, whether you send that music to one person on the web or a billion— It's zero marginal costs. You just need a service provider to keep your power up. I was surprised when that Korean performance artist a couple of years ago— A billion people went to his website! Zero marginal cost.

We have millions of young people, any given day, who are producing their own YouTube videos. Take a little video, put it up on the web, a billion people can see it. Zero marginal cost. We have people producing their own news blogs and social media. Near zero marginal cost. We have millions of people contributing to Wikipedia and constructing the knowledge of the world on a non-profit website for free. This is the most improbable experiment I could ever imagine. I don't know how Jimmy Wales came up with this. I would have said, "This cannot succeed!" Adam Smith said, "Each individual pursues their own self-interest and never cares about the public good." But in pursuing their self-interest and not giving a damn about the public good— By pursuing their self-interest, the society is better off. I always thought it was a little dubious, but that's how we grew up. But apparently, none of the Millennials have read Adam Smith. Because, for example, in Wikipedia you're all freely giving your talent, putting things up on Wikipedia, constructing the knowledge of the world. You've democratized knowledge in less than 15 years, and the accuracy is...

Now: Book publishing. What's happening? People are creating their own free eBooks. My new book came out on the Pirate Bays before we could publish in our languages and —God bless them— they were ranking it before Amazon could even touch it. We have 6 million college students taking massive open online college courses taught by the best professors at the best universities. They're getting college credits. It's free! You can't win here. You Millennials have won. Unless we outlaw all the technology, we've got to find a way to live with it and find value with it. Entire industries have been disrupted in the 17 years since Napster. The music industry has shrunk. Television has declined 'cause everyone's producing their own YouTube videos. You're all producers sharing with each other. Newspapers and magazines have gone out of business with social blogs. But thousands of new enterprises have emerged. Not just Google, Facebook, and Twitter—all of these are new. But thousands of startup enterprises —profit and nonprofit— they're creating the platforms, they're creating the apps, they're creating the connectivity, they're using the analytics and the data. It's a revolution! Well, we thought there'd be a firewall here. And certainly we could understand how zero marginal cost brought on by digitalization would affect the virtual world, but we didn't think it would move over the firewall to the physical world. What I'm saying, with the zero marginal cost society is that firewall is broken now —it's called the Internet of Things— completely gone.

We have millions of people now producing their own renewable energy, right now, at near zero marginal cost. Free! And now, as we move to car sharing, and as we move to driverless transportation, we're gonna see the marginal cost plunge toward near zero in transport logistics in the next 20 years. Let's go back to Germany. What's happened in the 10 years since that first conversation with the Chancellor? We are now in Germany at 32% of all the electricity power in Germany now is solar and wind, right now. In ten years. And this is a northern country —doesn't have a lot of Sun. We're gonna be 35% of the electricity, solar and wind, by 2020— We're gonna be 100% renewable energy by 2040. Absolutely! And what's interesting is the fixed cost of introducing the solar technology and the wind turbines and the geothermal heat pumps— Solar and wind are on an exponential curve, just like computers! When I was a kid in the 1940s and 50s, there's only a few computers. They cost millions of dollars. And the chairman of IBM at the time said, Sure, here's the text separated into paragraphs:

The players come together in their own regions of cooperation, and they join together. It is power to the people. Does this mean this is the end of the energy companies? Not necessarily. Many will go out of business. Some will not.

About seven years ago, the EON—one of the giant four companies— they asked if I would debate their Chairman, Mr. Tyson, but in a neutral country, the Netherlands. We had a three-hour debate. You're not leaving the 2nd Industrial Revolution. And I said to him, "Look, tomorrow morning. But you also have to be in the 3rd Industrial Revolution tomorrow morning because you have a 25, 30-year transition to get from the 2nd to the 3rd and find new value. And I said in the new system, it operates quite differently than the old system. In the new 3rd Industrial Revolution, you make more money by selling less and less and less electricity. I said, what you do is, you set up partnerships with thousands of enterprises. And you help manage the energy flow through their value chains. You help them with their big data. You help them mine that big data with the analytics. You help them with their algorithms and apps. Dramatically increase their productivity. In return, those thousands of enterprises will share their gains back with the power companies. It's called "performance contracts." We're now doing it, and guess what? Last year, the chairman of Eon—took him 7 years— they're moving to renewable energies and they want to help manage parts of the energy internet with energy services. EDF, the great nuclear power, in France has joined our group.

The Energy Internet

We're doing the whole build-out of the 3rd Industrial Revolution in parts of Europe: in northern France, the Netherlands, Luxemburg... And EDF said, "We're with you." They're on the ground helping lay this out. They're not leaving nuclear tomorrow, but they see that the handwriting is on the wall. So the companies that don't go there; we don't need them. It's not just Europe; now China. When President Xi came in to power with Premier Li—Premier Li announced that he —and I was pleased— he announced he'd read my book, The Third Industrial Revolution. He put out a public announcement. I'd never met him. I never even been to China. And he instructed the central government of China to begin looking at these themes that I'm laying out to you to move China to a 3rd Industrial Revolution. There mindful in China. They lost the whole 1st Industrial Revolution. They missed almost all the 2nd Industrial Revolution and came it in the tail in the last 10 years. And they said, "We're not gonna lose the 3rd Industrial Revolution." "We wanna collaborate with the 3rd Industrial Revolution." And they said, "Be among the leaders." To show you how fast they move, I've been shuttling back and forth, but after the first visit—it was about eleven weeks later. The chairman of the state grid, which is the largest electricity grid in the world, announced an $82 billion dollar, four-year commitment to digitalize the Chinese grid so the millions of Chinese people could produce their own solar and wind in their local communities and share it back on an energy internet. That started this year, yeah. Watch Europe. Watch China.

The coming together of the communication internet, with the renewable energy internet gives rise to the automated, GPS, driverless, transportation logistics internet. We built the whole global economy in the 2nd Industrial Revolution around car ownership. That's what this was all about. You've thrown us a curve. You really have. Apparently you don't wanna own cars anymore. This is Grandma and Grandpa. They got two cars sitting in the driveway cleaning and waxing them every few weeks, and they're never used. Or they're at the office 90% of the day never used. You don't wanna own cars. You want access to mobility and car sharing networks, not ownership of cars in markets, correct? So there's a problem here.

The problem is for every car shared in car sharing in the sharing economy, we're eliminating 15 cars. This is both the problem and the opportunity. Larry burns was the former Vice President of General Motors until a few years ago, now he's a professor at the University of Michigan. So Larry just did a study—very revealing. He studied Ann Arbor, Michigan. We can eliminate 80% of vehicles with better mobility, cheaper. Now let's extrapolate Larry's study. We've got a billion cars, buses, and trucks choking us in traffic around the world. They're the 3rd major cause of global warming emissions. The number 1 cause of global warming emissions is buildings. But in Europe, we're now retrofitting those buildings, transforming into micro power plants and big data centers off carbon. Anybody know what the number 2 cause of climate change, global warming emissions are by industrial activity? Number 1 is buildings—we always talk about it. Number 3 is transport. What's number 2?—Consumption of meat—Meat, meat, meat. We have 1.3 billion cows. They take up about 23% of the land mass of the Earth. I love cows, but the methane they produce is a major contributor to global warming—much more powerful than CO₂— and then, when we pasture those animals, we have the fertilizers that emit nitrous oxide. And it goes on and on. And I should say that, without mentioning names, even some of the prophetic voices in the climate change debate will never mention this. Because they do not want to antagonize people and even suggest that we may wanna change our diet and move down the food chain so that we can live healthy, respect our fellow creatures, and at the same time mitigate climate change. So, you never hear this in the debate. Never! Transport.

Number 3 is transport. So, if Larry's right—Larry Burns— we're gonna eliminate probably 80% of the vehicles in the world in the next two generations because the Millennials, your children, and grandchildren are never going to own cars again. This I know. And the remaining 200 million vehicles— They're gonna be electric. They're gonna be fuel-cell driven. They're gonna be operated by near zero marginal cost renewable energy. This is already happening. They're gonna be 3D printed, with composite recycled materials at low marginal cost. They're gonna be driverless. This is already happening. This gets to the question of, "Is this the end of the world for transportation companies?" Not necessarily. But they have to change their business model while they're still in the 2nd Industrial Revolution, selling cars, buses, and trucks. They have to move to the 3rd Industrial Revolution, where they help manage vast networks along with all the other players. This is a very cool thing that happened about six weeks ago. Daimler asked me to join them—Daimler invented the internal combustion engine. So I'm always mindful they're a step ahead. And the chairman of Daimler Trucks brought together 350 journalists from around the world in Germany asked me to come in— I laid out the same story we're talking about here.

Paragraph 1:
In Europe, we spent 741 billion equivalent US dollars on infrastructure in 2012. One year alone. That's just a bad recession year, typical. The problem is what we spent it on. We spent the money on an old 2nd Industrial Revolution platform. Remember what I said to Chancellor Merkel? And we peaked in the productivity 20 years ago at 20% ceiling, and we can't get anything more out of it. We're stalled, which stalls the economy, stalls the smart startups, stalls the entrepreneurial expansion. So I said, if we simply reprioritize our investments, spend some of it patching up the old infrastructure—we don't want it to collapse— but we prioritize, so part of those funds each year go to each region, so that they can begin to build out and scale up a 3rd Industrial Revolution infrastructure. With an Internet of Things platform, we will be there in 30 years.

Paragraph 2:
Digital Europe. This year, we reprioritized our funding at the EU and, beginning in January of next year, regions across the EU will secure EU funding, leverage against private equity, and each region will customize and build out, like Wi-Fi, their plan and then connect up region to region to region. We call it "Digital Europe." We have a similar plan called "China Internet Plus" across the regions of China. Where's the US here?

Paragraph 3:
Digital US. CHAPTER SIX: TWO GENERATIONS OF MASS EMPLOYMENT. The coming together of this revolution will involve every industry: telecom, cable, ICT, consumer electronics, transport, logistics, construction, and real estate—all the retrofitting— all the industries are involved. And it means work. What I'm suggesting here is that we have one last surge of massive employment involving semi-skilled, unskilled professional, and conceptual labor. We have to build out this smart infrastructure. Robots aren't gonna do this. We have to take the entire energy complex of the United States. Think of all the infrastructure and all the technology, all those stranded assets. We have to convert all of that infrastructure from fossil fuel, nuclear to distributed renewable energy. We have to retrofit every building in the USA. That's what we're gonna do in Europe. Because you can't install the renewable technologies until the buildings are efficient. That means huge jobs for energy service companies and for the construction and real estate industry. Robots won't put in the insulation, and the new windows, and the doors. And then we have to install all the renewable energy technology. Human beings have to install that technology, and all the smart technologies that monitor the equipment, and puts in the digital advanced meters. We have to take the entire electricity grid of the USA, which is dumb, servo mechanical, embarrassing—it's 60 years old; it barely functions. And we have to transform the entire electricity grid to smart, digital so that we can manage these three internets. This is gonna require professional talent and unskilled and skilled labor for two generations. We have to take the entire transportation grid of the USA and turn it from dumb to smart road, rail, water, and air. Who's going to install the thousands of charging stations in all the buildings? Fuel cell outlets? Smart sensors? This requires human beings. This means two generations of work and guess what? It's financed by the payback of the energy savings. You don't have to have huge government involvement here. You simply have to have the enablement, so energy service companies can be set up, and we transform every building in the USA into a node. These nodes then connect, and they are the big data centers. They are the micro power plants. They are the transport hubs with electric charging stations. The nodes connect like Wi-Fi and all those nodes, those buildings—homes, offices, factory—that's your Internet of Things. That's a huge job for the construction industry, and you pay back by the energy savings. You can't default on the loans. But the technology doesn't do it alone. We have to change consciousness. I'm only guardedly hopeful. You know, I'm not naive; I'm guardedly hopeful. I think that what I've said is really a tough challenge. But I'm guardedly hopeful because human beings are the most social creature on this planet. When we get the story right, we move quickly. I'm always amazed when I fly and I see electricity grids across continents, and highways and urban centers. And I think, "My God! That was all done in 50, 60 years?" It's amazing! When we get the story, we move quick. We're a very social creature. They're coming together, these three Internets—communication, energy, and transport Internets on top of an Internet of Things platform. It changes the way we think about life.

Paragraph 4:
CHAPTER SEVEN: A New Consciousness for a New Era. Let me give you the best example. We've got millennial parents now that are sharing toys on these millennial websites, where you go up and you pay a subscription fee, one time and you're in the system. Then you can get a toy—any kind of toy you want—by age category and give it to your child. This is creating the real revolution. The parent traditionally brings home a toy. And they say to the daughter, "This is not Christmas." "Santa Claus didn't get you this toy." "We bought this toy at a store and we're giving this toy to you." "This is your property." "This is not your brother's toy, and this is not your sister's toy." "This is your toy." "You need to take responsibility for it and take care of it." "What did mom and dad just say to me?" The first thing I caught is, "This isn't my brother and sister's toy." That's pretty relevant. Now, status, power, negotiability. "I'll never let my siblings ever use this unless they pay the price." They're learning possession of property and markets. There's nothing wrong with that. But now, on these toy-sharing websites, parents are bringing home these toys—and pretty soon they're gonna come in a driverless drone at near zero marginal cost. Now the parents are giving this toy and saying, "Another little child played with this toy, and she had a lot of fun with it and she really took good care of it 'cause she knew one day you'd want to play with the toy." "And we hope you take good care of it 'cause one day another child will wanna play with the toy." What the child is learning now is this toy's not a possession, it's not status, it's not power, it's not negotiable. It's simply access to an experience for a moment of time, then another child gets to use it. They're learning how to be part of a circular economy, where we distribute things in the sharing economy over and over and over. Nothing goes to the landfill. I like a system where you have both opportunities. There's nothing wrong with being property. There's nothing wrong with having possessions and some status, but it's also nice to have another option where part of her life is being able to access an experience in time, and then share it with someone else. I don't think capitalism is gonna disappear, but I think it's gonna

 find value by creating a relationship, so that it finds value with the child that gave birth through the sharing economy. And, right here in this room, you are already in two economic systems day to day right here in Brooklyn. Part of the day, you're in the market. You're sellers, you're buyers, you're owners, you're workers, you're producing goods and services for each other for a profit in the marketplace, and you have property. But part of the day you're in the sharing economy. You're sharing virtual goods, entertainment, news, social blogs, Wikipedia. And now energy and car sharing. And, while it has capitalist parts to it, it's also a sharing economy where you can reduce the cost. And, by 2050, we will have two mature systems: part of the day, capitalist market, with a profit margin producing and selling to each other; part of the day in the sharing economy beyond the market, freely producing goods and services for each other. That's already started. That is not gonna go away. Your generation is moving from ownership to access, from markets to networks, from consumerism to sustainability, from market capital to social capital. Does this all sound familiar? It's a revolution. None of this is being taught in the schools, by the way. That's why this is really a revolution. And there are three things that I've noticed that give me some guarded hope. There's a basic change going on with you people in this room. It's strange to older people. There's a change in the way you define freedom. The way you define power. And the way you define community. And these changes really suggest the real revolution. For my generation, and generations before me, freedom was very simple, since the Enlightenment. To be free, in Enlightenment perspective, is to be an autonomous agent. To be self-sufficient. To be independent. To be not beholden to others. To be an island to oneself, so that one can have freedom as exclusivity. For the millennial generation that grew up on the Internet, autonomy is death. Being an island to oneself is death. Because for your generation, you ask the question, "How can I flourish to the full extent of my possibilities here on the planet?" And it's clear that your answer to that is "I flourish to the extent that I'm embedded in network after network, after network; community after community, where I can share my talents. And those talents can benefit the network and come back to benefit myself. I'm free because I have access." And, for you, freedom is not exclusivity. It's not being an autonomous agent. It's inclusivity. It's access to others in networks. Do I have this right? This is very alien to our generation. We may have to change all the constitutions in the world. This is a completely different idea about freedom. You have a different sensibility about power, which makes the older generation very nervous. We essentially believe that power always has to be a pyramid. It goes from the top down. That is power. There's no other way to define power. It's a pyramid—from the one to the many. But young people that grew up on the Internet— It's strange because you grew up thinking that power has to do with the networks you're engaged in. For you, power is not vertical; it's lateral. For you, power is being a mesh in network after network where you benefit each other. Open source. This is so strange to our older generation. We do not have this notion of power. It makes no sense to us, actually. But it makes total sense to you. And, finally, I think most importantly, we're seeing a change in the way a younger generation perceives identity to community. I grew up in a post Westphalian world, the nation-state. We were very clear on community. That is, each individual is born to be an autonomous agent, and we're each sovereign. We are each a sovereign to ourselves. And each of us as a sovereign to ourselves— We compete with other sovereign individuals, in the marketplace, for scarce resources, in a zero-sum game. Our nations represent us because they are sovereigns. And they represent all the millions of individual citizens who are sovereigns against other nations. And each nation then competes with every other nation for scarce resources in the marketplace of the battlefield in a zero-sum game. That's the post Westphalia nation-state world. Here's my question: Does anyone here believe that we're gonna be able to address climate change and bring the human family together and take our responsibility for our fellow creatures in the Earth we live in with that worldview? Anybody? What we're beginning to see with Millennials —and I don't wanna overstretch this— but I'm beginning to sense a shift from geopolitics to biosphere consciousness. Just beginning to see it. I hope it doesn't go away. I don't think it will. The biosphere is that 19 km from the stratosphere to the ocean, where all life and all the chemicals on the planet interact to maintain the ecosystems, the biology of the Earth. We're getting 14-year olds coming home with biosphere consciousness. They're becoming the biosphere police. We got young people coming home and saying to their father, "Why are you using so much water here while you're shaving?" "Can't we turn it off once in a while?" "We're wasting the water." They're saying to their parents, "Why is the little red light on on the TV?" "We haven't been in that room for three weeks!" Wasting electricity... They're saying to their parents, "Why are there two cars in the driveway?" "Why can't we at least car share one?" They're saying to their parents. And this is the one I'm particularly fond of. It brings a smile to me.